My name is Martin O'Malley, former Mayor of Baltimore, former governor of Maryland, a life long democrat, and most importantly, a husband, and a father.
My wife Katie and I have four great kids, Grace, and Tara, and William and Jack. And, like you, there is nothing we wouldn't do to give them healthier and better lives. There are some things that I have learned to do better in life than others. And, after 15 years of executive experience, I have learned how to be an effective leader.
Whether it was raising the minimum wage, making our public schools the best in America, passing marriage equality, the DREAM Act, and comprehensive gun safety legislation, I have learned how to get things done because I am very clear about my principals.
Thanks to President Obama, our country has come a long way since the Wall Street crash of 2008. Our country's doing better, we are creating jobs again. But we elected a president, not a magician, and there is urgent work that needs to be done right now. For there is a - deep injustice, an economic injustice that threatens to tear our country apart, and it will not solve itself. Injustice does not solve itself.
What I'm talking about is this, our middle class is shrinking. Our poor families are becoming poorer, and 70 percent of us are earning the same, or less than we were 12 years ago. We need new leadership, and we need action. The sort of action that will actually make wages go up again for all American families.
Our economy isn't money, it's people. It's all of our people, and so we must invest in our country, and the potential of our kids to make college a debt free option for all of our families, instead of settling our kids with a lifetime of crushing debt.
And, we must square our shoulders to the great challenge of climate change and make this threat our opportunity. The future is what we make of it. We are all in this together. And, the question in this election is whether you and I still have the ability to give our kids a better future. I believe we do, that is why I am running for president, and I need your help.
Thank you.
Yes, actually, I believe what she said was that there's a lot of policies that have led to this unrest.
But, Anderson, when I ran for mayor of Baltimore in 1999.
Well, let's talk about this a little bit.  One of the things that was not reported during that heartbreaking night of unrest in Baltimore was that arrests had actually fallen to a 38-year low in the year prior to the Freddie Gray's tragic death.
Anderson, when I ran for mayor of Baltimore back in 1999, it was not because our city was doing well.  It was because we allowed ourselves to become the most violent, addicted, and abandoned city in America.
And I ran and promised people that together we could turn that around.  And we put our city on a path to reduce violent crime, or part one crime by more than any other major city in America over the next 10 years.
I did not make our city immune to setbacks.  But I attended a lot of funerals, including one for a family of seven who were firebombed in their sleep for picking up the phone in a poor African-American neighborhood and calling the police because of drug dealers on their corner.
We've saved over a thousand lives in Baltimore in the last 15 years of people working together.  And the vast majority of them were young and poor and black.  It wasn't easy on any day.  But we saved lives and we gave our city a better future, improving police and community relations every single day that I was in office.
Well, I think the key word in your followup there was the word "settle."  That's true.  It was settled.  Arrests peaked in 2003, Anderson, but they declined every year after that as we restored peace in our poorer neighborhoods so that people could actually walk and not have to worry about their kids or their loved ones of being victims of violent crime.
Look, none of this is easy.  None of us has all the answers.  But together as a city, we saved a lot of lives.  It was about leadership. It was about principle.  And it was about bringing people together.
Thank you.
And, Anderson, I also had to overcome a lot of opposition in the leadership of my own party to get this done.  Look, it's fine to talk about all of these things - and I'm glad we're talking about these things - but I've actually done them.
We passed comprehensive gun safety legislation, not by looking at the pollings or looking at what the polls said.  We actually did it. And, Anderson, here tonight in our audience are two people that make this issue very, very real.  Sandy and Lonnie Phillips are here from Colorado.  And their daughter, Jessie, was one of those who lost their lives in that awful mass shooting in Aurora.
Now, to try to transform their grief, they went to court, where sometimes progress does happen when you file in court, but in this case, you want to talk about a - a rigged game, Senator?  The game was rigged.  A man had sold 4,000 rounds of military ammunition to this - this person that killed their daughter, riddled her body with five bullets, and he didn't even ask where it was going.
And not only did their case get thrown out of court, they were slapped with $200,000 in court fees because of the way that the NRA gets its way in our Congress and we take a backseat.  It's time to stand up and pass comprehensive gun safety legislation as a nation.
Senator - Senator, excuse me.
Senator, it is not about rural - Senator, it was not about rural and urban.
Have you ever been to the Eastern Shore?  Have you ever been to Western Maryland?  We were able to pass this and still respect the hunting traditions of people who live in our rural areas.
And we did it by leading with principle, not by pandering to the NRA and backing down to the NRA.
And I have an F from the NRA, Senator.
 Well, maybe that's a healthy thing.
Anderson, when the NRA wrote to everyone in our state - when the NRA wrote to members in our state and told people with hunting traditions lies about what our comprehensive gun safety legislation is, I wrote right back to them and laid out what it actually did. And that's why, not only did we pass it, but the NRA didn't dare to petition a referendum because we built a public consensus.
Anderson, no president - no commander in chief - should take the military option off the table, even if most of us would agree that it should be the last option.
What disturbed people so much about - and I would agree with Senator Sanders on this - leading us into Iraq under false pretenses and telling us, as a people, that there were weapons of mass destruction there was - was one of the worst blunders in modern American history.
But the reason why people remain angry about it is because people feel like a lot of our legislators got railroaded in a war fever and by polls.  And I remember being at a dinner shortly before that invasion.  People were talking at - and saying, "it'll take us just a couple years to rebuild democracy," and I thought, "has this world gone mad?"
Whenever we go - and contrary to John Quincy Adams' advice - "searching the world for monsters to destroy," and when we use political might to take a - at the expense of democratic principle, we hurt ourselves, and we hurt our.
I believe that, as president, I would not be so quick to pull for a military tool.  I believe that a no-fly zone in Syria, at this time, actually, Secretary, would be a mistake.
You have to enforce no-fly zones, and I believe, especially with the Russian air force in the air, it could lead to an escalation because of an accident that we would deeply regret.
I support President Obama.  I think we have to play a long game, and I think, ultimately - you want to talk about blunders?  I think Assad's invasion of Syria will be seen as a blunder.
Anderson, I think we are learning.
Anderson, I think there's lessons to be learned from Benghazi.  And those lessons are that we need to do a much better job as a nation of having human intelligence on the ground so that we know who the emerging next generation leaders are that are coming up to replace a dictator when his time on this planet ends.
And I believe that's what Chris Stevens was trying to do.  But he did not have the tools.  We have failed as a country to invest in the human intelligence that would allow us to make not only better decisions in Libya, but better decisions in Syria today.
And it's a huge national security failing.
I believe that nuclear Iran remains the biggest threat, along with the threat of ISIL; climate change, of course, makes cascading threats even more.
I believe that now that we're finally having debates, Anderson, that we don't have to be defined by the email scandal, and how long - what the FBI's asking about. Instead, we can talk about affordable college, making college debt free, and all the issues. Which is why - and I see the chair of the DNC here, look how glad we are actually to be talking about the issues that matter the most to people around the kitchen table.
We need to get wages to go up, college more affordable we need to make American 100 percent clean electric by 2050.
Anderson, the point that the Black Lives Matter movement is making is a very, very legitimate and serious point, and that is that as a nation we have undervalued the lives of black lives, people of color.
When I ran for Mayor of Baltimore - and we we burying over 350 young men ever single year, mostly young, and poor, and black, and I said to our legislature, at the time when I appeared in front of them as a mayor, that if we were burying white, young, poor men in these number we would be marching in the streets and there would be a different reaction.
Black lives matter, and we have a lot of work to do to reform our criminal justice system, and to address race relations in our country.
Yes.  Anderson, I want to associate myself with many of the items that the senator from Vermont mentioned, and I actually did them in our state.  We raised the minimum wage, passed the living wage, invested more in infrastructure, went four years in a row without a penny's increase in college tuition.
But there's another piece that Senator Sanders left out tonight, but he's been excellent about underscoring that.  And that is that we need to separate the casino, speculative, mega-bank gambling that we have to insure with our money, from the commercial banking - namely, reinstating Glass-Steagall.
Secretary Clinton mentioned my support eight years ago.  And Secretary, I was proud to support you eight years ago, but something happened in between, and that is, Anderson, a Wall Street crash that wiped out millions of jobs and millions of savings for families.  And we are still just as vulnerable Paul Volcker says today.
We need to reinstate Glass-Steagall and that's a huge difference on this stage among us as candidates.
Anderson, look, this is - the big banks - I mean, once we repealed Glass-Steagall back in the late 1999s, the big banks, the six of them, went from controlling, what, the equivalent of 15 percent of our GDP to now 65 percent of our GDP.
And - right before this debate, Secretary Clinton's campaign put out a lot of reversals on positions on Keystone and many other things.  But one of them that we still have a great difference on, Madam Secretary, is that you are not for Glass-Steagall.
You are not for putting a firewall between this speculative, risky shadow banking behavior.  I am, and the people of our country need a president who's on their side, willing to protect the Main Street economy from recklessness on Wall Street.
We have to fulfill our promise.
And Juan Carlos - Juan Carlos.
Juan Carlos, I think what you've heard up here is some of the old thinking on immigration reform, and that's why it's gridlocked. We need to understand that our country is stronger in every generation by the arrival of new American immigrants. That is why I have put out a policy for comprehensive immigration reform, that is why I would go further than President Obama has on DACA, and DAPA.
I mean, we are a nation of immigrants, we are made stronger by immigrants. Do you think for a second that simply because somebody's standing in a broken que on naturalization they're not going to go to the hospital, and that care isn't going to fall on to our insurance rates? I am for a generous, compassionate America that says we're all in this together. We need comprehensive immigration reform. It'll make wages go up in America $250 for every year.
Here. Here.
Anderson, we actually did this in my state of Maryland. We passed.
We passed a state version of the DREAM Act and a lot of the xenophobes, the immigrant haters like some that we've heard like, Donald Trump, that carnival barker in the Republican party tried to mischaracterize it as free tuition for illegal immigrants. But, we took our case to the people when it was petitioned to referendum, and we won with 58 percent of the vote. The more our children learn, the more they will earn, and that's true of children who have yet to be naturalized but will become American citizens.
Anderson, Snowden put a lot of Americans' lives at risk.  Snowden broke the law.  Whistleblowers do not run to Russia and try to get protection from Putin.  If he really believes that, he should be back here.
I would follow through on the promise that the American people thought we made as Democratic Party, to protect the Main Street economy from recklessness on Wall Street.  I would push to separate out these too-big-to-jail, too-big-to-fail banks, and put in place Glass-Steagall, a modern Glass-Steagall that creates a firewall so that this wreckage of our economy can never happen again.
Anderson, I actually have talked about a revolution. What we need is a green energy revolution.  We need to move America to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050 and create 5 million jobs along the way.
Well, actually, you know, we had this conversation. And I will share with you that I've traveled all around the country, Anderson, and there's two phrases I keep hearing again and again and again.  And they're the phrases "new leadership" and "getting things done."
We cannot be this dissatisfied with our gridlocked national politics and an economy where 70 percent of us are earning the same or less than we were 12 years ago, and think that a resort to old names is going to move us forward.
I respect what Secretary Clinton and her husband have done for our country.  But our country needs new leadership to move forward.
Yeah.
Anna, I have put forward a plan - and I'm the only candidate, I believe, in either party to do this - to move America forward to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050.
We did not land a man on the moon with an all-of-the-above strategy.  It was an intentional engineering challenge, and we solved it as a nation.  And our nation must solve this one.
So I put forward the plan that would extend the investor tax credits for solar and for wind.  If you go across Iowa, you see that 30 percent of their energy now comes from wind.  We're here in Las Vegas, one of the most sustainable cities in America, doing important things in terms of green building, architecture and design.
We can get there as a nation, but it's going to require presidential leadership.  And as president, I intend to sign as my very first order in office the - an order that moves us as a nation and dedicates our resources to solving this problem and moving us to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050.
We can do it.
Anderson, in our state, we actually expanded family leave.  And I have to agree with Secretary Clinton and Senator Sanders.  Look, the genius of our nation is that we find ways in every generation to include more of our people more fully in the economic life of our country, and we need to do that for our families, and especially so that women aren't penalized in having to drop out of the workforce.  My wife, Katie, is here with our four kids.  And, man, that was a juggle when we had little kids and - and keeping jobs and moving forwards.  We would be a stronger nation economically if we had paid family leave.
Juan Carlos?
The National Rifle Association.
Anderson, thank you.
I am very, very grateful to have been able to be on this stage with this distinguished group of candidates tonight.  And what you heard tonight, Anderson, was a very, very - and all of you watching at home - was a very, very different debate than from the sort of debate you heard from the two presidential Republican debates.
On this stage - on this stage, you didn't hear anyone denigrate women, you didn't hear anyone make racist comments about new American immigrants, you didn't hear anyone speak ill of another American because of their religious belief.
What you heard instead on this stage tonight was an honest search for the answers that will move our country forward, to move us to a 100 percent clean electric energy grid by 2050, to take the actions that we have always taken as Americans so that we can actually attack injustice in our country, employ more of our people, rebuild our cities and towns, educate our children at higher and better levels, and include more of our people in the economic, social, and political life of our country.
I truly believe that we are standing on the threshold of a new era of American progress.  Unless you've become discouraged about our gridlock in Congress, talk to our young people under 30, because you'll never find among them people that want to bash immigrants or people that want to deny rights to gay couples.
That tells me we are moving to a more connected, generous, and compassionate place, and we need to speak to the goodness within our country.

